Square Sum and Square Root
The answer is hidden by default. click Show Answer above to view the solutions
Problem
Original image. given 2025 squared plus 2026 squared equals a. find the square root of 2a minus 1
Given
2025 squared plus 2026 squared equals a
Find
The square root of 2a minus 1
Solution 1. Algebra
The key is to notice that 2025 and 2026 are consecutive integers. let 2025 be n. so 2026 is n plus 1
2025 equals n. 2026 equals n plus 1
From the problem
a equals n squared plus open parenthesis n plus 1 close parenthesis squared
Compute 2a minus 1
2a minus 1 equals 2 times open bracket n squared plus open parenthesis n plus 1 close parenthesis squared close bracket minus 1. which simplifies to 4n squared plus 4n plus 1. equal to open parenthesis 2n plus 1 close parenthesis squared
Therefore
The square root of 2a minus 1 equals the square root of open parenthesis 2n plus 1 close parenthesis squared. equal to 2n plus 1
Substitute n equals 2025
2n plus 1 equals 2 times 2025 plus 1. equal to 4051
Answer. 4051
Solution 2. Geometry or Dissection Method
This method interprets the expression as area. in the figure below the parts 2026 squared. 2025 squared. and the center 1 are arranged into one large square
Geometry solution image. use this single diagram to observe the side length and area relationship of the large square
Observation. one side of the large square is made of two segments. 2026 and 2025. so the side length of the large square is 2026 plus 2025
Therefore. the area of the large square is
Open parenthesis 2026 plus 2025 close parenthesis squared
And all the pieces in the figure together represent
2a minus 1
So we have
2a minus 1 equals open parenthesis 2026 plus 2025 close parenthesis squared
Taking the square root of both sides
The square root of 2a minus 1 equals the square root of open parenthesis 2026 plus 2025 close parenthesis squared. equal to 2026 plus 2025. equal to 4051
Answer. 4051
Final Answer
The square root of 2a minus 1 equals 4051
Final answer. 4051